---
title: Making Products That People Want To Pay For
image: /assets/images/snowman.jpg
layout: post
---

Have you ever wondered why people pay for certain products, but not for
others? Do you know how to make them pay for your current or future product?

While many entrepreneurs focus on generating traffic to their websites, fewer
focus on making it clear for visitors why they should pay for it, so they end
up with traffic, but without revenue.

In creating [Keynotopia](http://keynotopia.com) and
[StatusPanda](http://statuspanda.com), one of the most important lessons I
learned is that for people don't pay for your product, but for **the value
they are getting from it**.

Value is not features. Value is not benefits, either. Value is what your
customers get back after using the features and experiencing the benefits of
your product.

And people mostly pay for products that save them money, save them time, or
help them make more money.

Let me illustrate with a couple of examples.

With [Keynotopia](http://keynotopia.com), a feature would be the ability to
use ready-made design components and screens to quickly design good looking
prototypes. A benefit would be to make those prototypes quickly and cheaply,
and without being a designer or hiring one. The value time saved by not using
more complex tools, money saved by not hiring a designer, and more clients
signed with those prototypes. If a first time entrepreneur gets funded with a
Keynote prototype created in one week (true story), and a design agency gets a
$1M+ contract with a Keynote prototype made during a client meeting (another
true story), then I can charge $100 for Keynotopia knowing that customers get
at least 10 times the value they pay for. **It's an easy sell!**

With [StatusPanda](http://statuspanda.com), I spoke with 25+ managers, and I
realized that it takes an average of 2 hours/week to request status updates
from team members, and to compile all those updates into a single status
report. If a manager's time is worth $100/hour, that one task costs the
company around $800/month. I asked them if they would pay $40/month for a
product that saves them an hour a week requesting and preparing status
reports. That's paying $40/month to save $400/month. **They said it was a good
deal!**

In both cases, I learned that **people pay when they can measure what they get
after using the products (value), not what they do or get while using it
(features and benefits).**

If you're creating a new product, or want people to pay for your existing
product (or service), find out its value in a quantifiable way, show it to
them in a clear way, and they won't hesitate to pay you for it.